It all happens for a reason.
I couldn’t resist fate.
20 years ago, back in the school days, I had a business card in my bag with my dad’s name on it. I was the only one in the class who had his dad’s name printed on a business card and I was so proud because no one else had ever seen their fathers’ name printed or typed.
Today, 14-Nov-2022, I’m seeing my father’s name printed on a paper but this time on a funeral invitation. He laid to rest in peace on the ICU bed at such a coincidence I wasn’t by his side but in a hotel room, countries apart where I just couldn’t go back.
I can’t even cry and I don’t know why but words keep pouring up my mind then I’m trying to turn them into pages to help relieve from grief.
I just couldn’t say “Dad, just keep holding on” or “Dad, you’re tired. Just let go”. I could not even look at the video where he strived for a breath because I wanted to lock his healthy alive motion picture in my memory which I had seen during the Thadinkyut family video call last October.
I can’t resist the memories that keep flashing back. Memories of me and my dad.
As I am the eldest son, I had a chance to have more private time with my dad before my sisters were born. He used to take the train from Yangon to Mandalay several times when his boss started to grow his business to upper Myanmar 20 years back then. My dad, most of the time, took me to Mandalay and this railway experience was one of the best of my childhood. He used to buy me a pack of sun dried bananas and rolls of dried elk meat in Tharzi station. I also had my life’s first experience touching a refrigerator when my parents took a visit to Pyin Oo Lwin and put me to stay in a hotel called “Universe”. I never forget the cold sweet taste of the banana after I put it for a night in the fridge. And I still remember I fell from the bed that night because that was my first time sleeping on a mattress. Steamed rice with chinese fried noodle was the meal before we left Mandalay.Though it was just a simple chinese fried noodle, it was one of the most delicious meals of my life.
He used to take me to his work downtown where a group of people was printing papers while another group was binding and cutting them into books. The rattling sound of the offset printer became so friendly to me and my love of books started to grow since then.
My first visit to a beach took place when my father and his colleagues went to Chaung Thar. I had a private time with my dad on the beach where I started to learn water is not that scary.
Your favourite colour is grey and I bought a grey hat for one of your mid-30s birthdays and you hugged me and said “Thanks my son”. He wanted me to play a toy revolver gun with gunpowder only under his supervision so he wrote a note saying “Yuko is not to touch this toy gun” but I scratched it and rewrote “Yuko can touch this toy gun” and he didn’t get angry.
Television was a luxury 20 years ago. I was obsessed with watching the Monkey King TV series at a neighbour’s house near my home and it was the only house which owns a TV in my neighbourhood. One day, the neighbour said the show was off for tonight as he wanted to go to bed early and I was crying in front of that house. Next day, dad bought a TV for us so I never had to go to another house to watch TV.
There were family trips as well. I think going to Chaung Thar with everyone in the family was the last all-inclusive family trip. I had abdominal pain all day long during the trip. We stayed in a bungalow right next to the beach and a breakfast Monhingha was so sweet with monosodium glutamate. My elder sister was not used to a large amount of water touching her feet so she had got her unique scream which everyone remembered for the rest of their life. My younger sister was an infant back then, but I’m sure she had a good time on the beach.
Conditions were changing dramatically as all of us had grown up and I always wanted to rub off those bad memories during these years. I was the first one separated from the family as I got married and I almost always keep in touch with my mom rather than my dad so my relationship with my dad got colder. Now the coup made us countries apart. I couldn’t even see my parents for more than a year and I had to admit I often forget to keep in touch with my parents while I struggle to settle in another country. My dad used to say he wanted a grandchild but I’m sorry dad I couldn’t help it yet and I couldn’t get right next to your bed before your last breath.
I still don’t cry yet. And I don’t know when I would cry.
It all happens for a reason.
I couldn’t resist fate.

Monday, Nov 14, 2022.
5:30 pm